pyDoc2GitHub CWE-191 (#547)
ossf/wg-best-practices-os-developers: docs/Secure-Coding-Guide-for-Python/CWE-682/CWE-191/README.md

# CWE-191, Integer Underflow (Wrap or Wraparound)

Ensure that integer overflow is properly handled in order to avoid unexpected behavior. Python data types can be divided into two categories:

- Built-in types such as `int`, `float`, or `complex` [[Python 2024]](https://docs.python.org/3.9/library/stdtypes.html). These types are provided by classes and are protected against overflows.

> - Primitive types such as `numpy`, `time`, or `ctype`  share issues known from `C` , or `C++`  and are often used to interact with the operating system, or for efficiency. Developers should follow the `C` guidelines for rules to follow.

Reviewer: There is a word missing: "... interact with the operating system, or (?) for efficiency..."

Author: changed as discussed

## Non-Compliant Code Example

> Using a `numpy.int64` can cause an unintentional flip of its sign when reaching the maximum number that can be store as demonstrated in `noncompliant01.py`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using a `numpy.int64` can cause an unintentional flip of its sign when reaching the maximum number that can be stored as demonstrated in `noncompliant01.py`.
```

*[noncompliant01.py](noncompliant01.py):*

```python
""" Non-compliant Code Example """

import numpy

a = numpy.int64(numpy.iinfo(numpy.int64).max)
print(a + 1)  # RuntimeWarning and continues
print()
b = numpy.int64(numpy.iinfo(numpy.int64).max + 1)  # OverflowError and stops
print(b)  # we will never reach this
```

> Adding `+1` to `9223372036854775807` results in a negative number `-9223372036854775808` throws a `RuntimeWarning`  but continues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adding `+1` to `9223372036854775807` results in a negative number `-9223372036854775808` and throws a `RuntimeWarning`  but continues.
```

An attempt to create `int` from a too big number causes an `OverflowError` and stops.

> [!NOTE]

> > It has been observed that different result may occur depending on `numpy` version for reference we are using `numpy 1.23.1` and Python version: `3.9.12.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> It has been observed that different results may occur depending on the version of `numpy`. For reference, we are using `numpy 1.23.1` and Python `3.9.12.`
```

    # RuntimeWarning and continues

try:
    b = numpy.int64(numpy.iinfo(numpy.int64).max + 1)  # OverflowError and stops
except OverflowError as e:
    print("Failed to assign value to B due to overflow error")
```

## Non-Compliant Code Example

The `noncompliant02.py` example tries to use `time.localtime()` to get `x` hours in the future but causes integer overflow as the given Python `int` is too large to convert to `C long`. This is possible because `time` implements C representations of integers with all the security vulnerabilities as if you were using `C`.

*[noncompliant02.py](noncompliant02.py):*

```python
""" Non-compliant Code Example """
 
import time
 
 
def get_time_in_future(hours_in_future):
    """Gets the time n hours in the future"""
    currtime = [tm for tm in time.localtime()]
    currtime[3] = currtime[3] + hours_in_future
    if currtime[3] + hours_in_future > 24:
        currtime[3] = currtime[3] - 24
    return time.asctime(tuple(currtime)).split(" ")[3]
 
 
#####################
# exploiting above code example
#####################
print(get_time_in_future(23**74))
```

## Compliant Solution

> This `compliant02.py` solution handles `OverflowError` Exception when a to high value is given to `get_time_in_future`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `compliant02.py` solution handles `OverflowError` Exception when a too large value is given to `get_time_in_future`.
```
